# OBJECTS

Object oriented programming is a set of techniques that use objects as the central principle of program organization.

## ENCAPSULATION

Separating interface from implementation.
divide programs into smaller pieces and make each piece responsible for managing its own state.

## METHODS

nothing more than properties that hold function values. ex:

    let rabbit = {};
    rabbit.speak = function(line){
        console.log(`The rabbit says ${line}`);
    }

    rabbit.speak("I'm alive.");
    // The rabbit says "I'm alive."

Usually a method needs to do something with the object it was called on. When a function is called as a method, looked up as a property and immediately called, as in object.method(), the binding called THIS in its body automatically points at the object that it was called on.

## PROTOTYPES
A prototype is another object that is used as a fallback source of properties.

The prototype relations of JavaScript objects form a tree-shaped structure, and at the root of this structure sits Object.prototype. It provides a few methods that show up in all objects, such as toString, which converts an object to a string representation.

## CLASSES
The JavaScript prototype system can be interpreted as a informal take on an object-oriented concept called classes.

A class defines the shape of a type of object

To create an instance of a given class, you have to make an object that derives from the proper prototype, but you also have to make sure it has the properties that instances of this class are supposed to have. This is what a CONSTRUCTOR function does.

JavaScript provides a way to make defining this type of function easier. If you put the keyword new in front of a function call, the function is treated as a constructor. This means that an object with the right prototype is automatically created, bound to THIS in the function, and returned at the end of the function.

Constructors automatically get a property named prototype, which by default holds a plain, empty object that derives from Object.prototype. You can overwrite it with a new object if you want, or you can add properties to the existing object.

Constructors first letters will be capitalized to distinguish them from other functions.

    class Rabbit {
        constructor(type){
            this.type = type;
        }
        speak(line){
            console.log(`The ${this.type} rabbit says ${line}`);
        }
    }

    let killerRabbit = new Rabbit("killer");
    let blackRabbit = new Rabbit("black");

The class keyword starts a class declaration, which allows us to define a constructor and a set of methods all in a single place.

## POLYMORPHISM
Polymorphism is the practice of designing objects to share behaviors and to be able to override shared behaviors with specific ones.

Polymorphism takes advantage of inheritance in order to make this happen.

    Super Class
    function Person(age, weight){
        this.age = age;
        this.weight = weight;
    }

    Person.prototype.getInfo = function(){
        return `I am ${this.age} years old, and weigh ${this.weight}.`
    }

    function Employee(age,weight,salary){
        this.age = age;
        this.weight = weight;
        this.salary = salary;
    }
    Employee.prototype = new Person();

The power in Polymorphic design is to share behaviors.

## SYMBOLS
Symbols are values created with the Symbol function. Unlike strings, newly created symbols are unique--you cannot create the same symbol twice.

    let sym =Symbol("name");
    console.log(sym == Symbol("name"));
    // false

    Rabbit.prototype[sym] = 55;
    console.log(blackRabbit[sym]);
    // 55

## INHERITANCE
JavaScripts prototype system makes it possible to create a new class, much like the old class, but with new definitions for some of its properties. The prototype for the new class derives from the old prototype but adds a new definition for the set method.

In OOP, this is called inheritance. The new class inherits properties and behavior from the old class.

Whereas encapsulation and polymorphism can be used to separate pieces of code from each other, reducing the tangledness of the overall program, inheritance fundamentally ties classes together, creating more tangle.
